README.md, before:

***NOTE:*** You should pull from the release/v1.0.0 branch rather than the master branch.

# The RAMS ToolKit (RAMSTK)
> A toolkit for **R**eliability, **A**vailability, **M**aintainability, and **S**afety (RAMS) analyses.

[![Github](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/all.svg)](https://github.com/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/releases)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/RAMSTK.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/RAMSTK/)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/20d0c5f5a2a844fea078b1e9105efdec)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk?branch=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/reliaqualassociates/ramstk/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/reliaqualassociates/ramstk)
[![BCH compliance](https://bettercodehub.com/edge/badge/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk?branch=master)](https://bettercodehub.com/)

## 🚩 Table of Contents
- [Features](#-features)
- [Installing](#-installing)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Using pip](#using-pip)
    - [Download](#download)
    - [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [Documentation](#-docs)
- [Examples](#-examples)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Authors](#-authors)
- [License](#-license)
- [Similar Products](#-similar-products)

## 🎨 Features

RAMSTK is built on the concept of modules where a module is a collection of related information and/or analyses pertinent to system development.  The modules currently included in RAMSTK are:

* Function Module
  - Functional decomposition
  - Functional FMEA
  - Hardware/Function matrix
* Requirements Module
  - Stakeholder input prioritization
  - Requirement development
  - Analysis of requirement for clarity, completeness, consistency, and verifiability
* Hardware Module
  - Reliability allocation
      - Equal apportionment
      - AGREE apportionment
      - ARINC apportionment
      - Feasibility of Objectives
  - Hazards analysis
  - Hardware reliability predictions using various methods
      - Similar items analysis
      - MIL-HDBK-217F parts count
      - MIL-HDBK-217F parts stress
  - FMEA/FMECA
      - RPN
      - MIL-STD-1629A, Task 102 Criticality Analysis
  - Physics of failure analysis
* Validation Module
  - Task description
  - Task acceptance value(s)
  - Task time
  - Task cost
  - Overall validation plan time/cost estimates

## 💾 Installing

These instructions will get RAMSTK up and running on your local machine.  Note that the Makefile contains all the commands needed to install or work with RAMSTK.  You should consult the help output for more information.

### Prerequisites

I use [pip-tools](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools) to manage the dependencies for RAMSTK while I'm developing so the requirements.txt file is formated for use with the pip-sync command.  However, it will also work with pip.

```sh
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

should get all the needed runtime requirements installed if they're not already.

If you're planning to do some development work on RAMSTK, the following would be the better approach:

```sh
$ pip install pyenv
$ make mkvenv
$ make usevenv ramstk-venv
$ pip install pip-tools
$ make depends
```

This will install [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv), create a virtual environment with the default name of ramstk-venv, activate that virtual environment, install pip-tools, and then install all the RAMSTK dependencies needed for testing, development, and runtime.

### Download

Install any missing RAMSTK dependencies using pip, your package manager, and/or build from source.  Then download the <version> of RAMSTK source from GitHub Releases you wish to install.

```sh
$ tar -xf ramstk-<version>.tar.gz
$ cd ramstk-<version>
$ make install
```

The install target recognizes PREFIX=<non-default install path> so you can install RAMSTK in your $HOME or a virtual environment.

### Running the Tests

To run the entire test suite for RAMSTK after installing, simply execute:

```
$ make test
```

To run specific tests or groups of tests, use pytest:

```
$ pytest -m integration tests/modules/test_allocation.py
$ pytest -m calculation tests/analyses/prediction
```

## 🔨 Usage

After installing RAMSTK, it can be launched from a terminal emulator:

```
$ ramstk
```

This is a good option if you need to file an issue as the output should be included in your report.

RAMSTK installs a *.desktop file and can be found where ever applications in the category Math or Science are listed.

## Documentation

Documentation for RAMSTK can be found [here](https://reliaqualassociates.github.io/ramstk/).  You should check it out!

## 💬 Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/weibullguy/ramstk/tree/develop/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

Also read [DEVELOPMENT_ENV.md](https://github.com/weibullguy/ramstk/tree/develop/docs/DEVELOPMENT_ENV.md) for instructions on setting up a development environment to work on and test RAMSTK.

## 🍞 Authors

* **Doyle 'weibullguy' Rowland** - *Initial work* - [weibullguy](https://github.com/weibullguy)

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/weibullguy/ramstk/blob/develop/LICENSE) file for details.

RAMSTK is also registered with the United States Copyright Office under registration number TXu 1-896-035.

## Similar Products

The following are commercially available products that perform RAMS analyses.  We are not endorsing any of them; they are all fine products and may be a better fit for you or your organization depending on your needs and budget.  Obviously, we would prefer you use RAMSTK.

* [PTC Windchill Quality](https://www.ptc.com/en/products/plm/capabilities/quality)
* [ReliaSoft Synthesis](https://www.reliasoft.com/products)

Commit message:

feat: add Program Status data manager (#389)
* refactor: remove unused methods from RAMSTKBaseView
* test: add tests for coverage
* refactor: remove unused methods
* refactor: update tag in treelib.Tree
* refactor: remove listview
* refactor: handle error when no records are returned
* refactor: add instance method to build UI
* refactor: now delete child requirements
* refactor: load, insert, delete, update
* refactor: allow edit, update on workview
* refactor: add parent to date select dialog
* test: update export tests
* docs: add requirement and stakeholder user docs
* chore: cleanup github workflow actions
* chore: cleanup github workflow actions
* chore: fix misspelling in workflow file
* chore: add chores workflow file
* chore: split up static checks in workflows
* chore: update versioning workflow
* chore: more versioning trial and error
* chore: more version workflow trial and error
* refactor: update PyPubSub messages
* refactor: allow correct attr to update on edit
* refactor: shorten long lines
* feat: set record and parent ID
* test: add tests for coverage
* chore: break up mypy and pylint into individual steps
* refactor: clean-up pylint warnings
* chore: update README with link to RTD documentation
* refactor: split status data manager from validation
* test: update export tests for validation changes
* refactor: update PyPubSub messages
* refactor: create program status data manager

README.md, after:

***NOTE:*** You should pull from the release/v1.0.0 branch rather than the master branch.

# The RAMS ToolKit (RAMSTK)
> A toolkit for **R**eliability, **A**vailability, **M**aintainability, and **S**afety (RAMS) analyses.

[![Github](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/all.svg)](https://github.com/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/releases)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/RAMSTK.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/RAMSTK/)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/20d0c5f5a2a844fea078b1e9105efdec)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk?branch=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/reliaqualassociates/ramstk/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/reliaqualassociates/ramstk)
[![BCH compliance](https://bettercodehub.com/edge/badge/ReliaQualAssociates/ramstk?branch=master)](https://bettercodehub.com/)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/ramstk/badge/?version=latest)](https://ramstk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## 🚩 Table of Contents
- [Features](#-features)
- [Installing](#-installing)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Using pip](#using-pip)
    - [Download](#download)
    - [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [Documentation](#-docs)
- [Examples](#-examples)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Authors](#-authors)
- [License](#-license)
- [Similar Products](#-similar-products)

## 🎨 Features

RAMSTK is built on the concept of modules where a module is a collection of related information and/or analyses pertinent to system development.  The modules currently included in RAMSTK are:

* Function Module
  - Functional decomposition
  - Functional FMEA
  - Hardware/Function matrix
* Requirements Module
  - Stakeholder input prioritization
  - Requirement development
  - Analysis of requirement for clarity, completeness, consistency, and verifiability
* Hardware Module
  - Reliability allocation
      - Equal apportionment
      - AGREE apportionment
      - ARINC apportionment
      - Feasibility of Objectives
  - Hazards analysis
  - Hardware reliability predictions using various methods
      - Similar items analysis
      - MIL-HDBK-217F parts count
      - MIL-HDBK-217F parts stress
  - FMEA/FMECA
      - RPN
      - MIL-STD-1629A, Task 102 Criticality Analysis
  - Physics of failure analysis
* Validation Module
  - Task description
  - Task acceptance value(s)
  - Task time
  - Task cost
  - Overall validation plan time/cost estimates

## 💾 Installing

These instructions will get RAMSTK up and running on your local machine.  Note that the Makefile contains all the commands needed to install or work with RAMSTK.  You should consult the help output for more information.

### Prerequisites

I use [pip-tools](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools) to manage the dependencies for RAMSTK while I'm developing so the requirements.txt file is formated for use with the pip-sync command.  However, it will also work with pip.

```sh
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

should get all the needed runtime requirements installed if they're not already.

If you're planning to do some development work on RAMSTK, the following would be the better approach:

```sh
$ pip install pyenv
$ make mkvenv
$ make usevenv ramstk-venv
$ pip install pip-tools
$ make depends
```

This will install [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv), create a virtual environment with the default name of ramstk-venv, activate that virtual environment, install pip-tools, and then install all the RAMSTK dependencies needed for testing, development, and runtime.

### Download

Install any missing RAMSTK dependencies using pip, your package manager, and/or build from source.  Then download the <version> of RAMSTK source from GitHub Releases you wish to install.

```sh
$ tar -xf ramstk-<version>.tar.gz
$ cd ramstk-<version>
$ make install
```

The install target recognizes PREFIX=<non-default install path> so you can install RAMSTK in your $HOME or a virtual environment.

### Running the Tests

To run the entire test suite for RAMSTK after installing, simply execute:

```
$ make test
```

To run specific tests or groups of tests, use pytest:

```
$ pytest -m integration tests/modules/test_allocation.py
$ pytest -m calculation tests/analyses/prediction
```

## 🔨 Usage

After installing RAMSTK, it can be launched from a terminal emulator:

```
$ ramstk
```

This is a good option if you need to file an issue as the output should be included in your report.

RAMSTK installs a *.desktop file and can be found where ever applications in the category Math or Science are listed.

## Documentation

Documentation for RAMSTK can be found [here](https://reliaqualassociates.github.io/ramstk/).
It's also available at [Read the Docs](https://ramstk.readthedocs.io/en/latest)

You should check it out!

## 💬 Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/weibullguy/ramstk/tree/develop/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

Also read [DEVELOPMENT_ENV.md](https://github.com/weibullguy/ramstk/tree/develop/docs/DEVELOPMENT_ENV.md) for instructions on setting up a development environment to work on and test RAMSTK.

## 🍞 Authors

* **Doyle 'weibullguy' Rowland** - *Initial work* - [weibullguy](https://github.com/weibullguy)

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/weibullguy/ramstk/blob/develop/LICENSE) file for details.

RAMSTK is also registered with the United States Copyright Office under registration number TXu 1-896-035.

## Similar Products

The following are commercially available products that perform RAMS analyses.  We are not endorsing any of them; they are all fine products and may be a better fit for you or your organization depending on your needs and budget.  Obviously, we would prefer you use RAMSTK.

* [PTC Windchill Quality](https://www.ptc.com/en/products/plm/capabilities/quality)
* [ReliaSoft Synthesis](https://www.reliasoft.com/products)
